The app we built thus far works.
But there is one thing which we can change, or which I at least want to have you think about.
On the orders screen, we changed this to be a stateful widget simply because I wanted to use an ID
state here.
And by the way, as I mentioned in a couple of annotations at the top of the video during the videos,
if you are using lists and falls as we're doing it here, you don't even need that hack.
And you would be fine running that code without that future delayed around it.
So you could actually get rid of all of that.
Of course you then can't away use a weight here though because you're not in a async function and turning
this into async function is not what you should do.
But of course you could then use then here to run your code that should run once the future is complete.
So you could move that set state call here into here.
And this first set say said state call is obsolete because we don't need that.
This will run before build runs without that future delayed workaround so we can just set its loading
to true then have this here and this would work as well if you use listen false here that's also the
difference to modal route off and so on which didn't work here in its state there we simply don't have
such a listen option.
The provider package simply internally gives you an option to opt out of certain functionalities that
would normally be connected with the inherited widget.
And this tunnel, which is established with the help of context and with these missing features which
you deliberately opt out of with lists and false, you can use provider of context here because you
basically use only a limited set of the features of that inherited widget thing behind the scenes.
So you could do that here.
You could do this in all places with provider off.
You can't use lists and false on things like modal root and so on.
That's not supported there, but that's not the main thing I wanted to focus on.
It's just something I again wanted to mention here.
The core thing I wanted to mention is that we're building a stateful widget here simply such that we
can use an ID state to initialize our data.
And I think that makes sense because we want to have a place in our app where we can make that call,
which only runs once when this screen gets rendered.
For example, making that fetch and a build method would be horrible because that method runs way too
often and actually we would even enter an infinite loop if we start calling set state in there, or
if we then fetched our orders and build runs again and we start fetching again and so on.
So making the fetch and build certainly is not an option.
There is, however, an alternative to turning this into a stateful widget and using in its state.
And it's that alternative which I now want to show you.
So let me comment this out here in its state and therefore we have an empty init state method which
we of course could also remove.
And let me show you that alternative here in that body.
In the end, the content we render depends on the question whether we're still fetching data or whether
we already got a response, right?
So what we can do here is we can use a special widget which is built into Flutter, and that's the future
builder widget.
The future builder widget takes a future and it then automatically starts listening to that.
So it adds to then and to catch error methods for you, you could say, and it takes a builder which
will get the current snapshot, the current state of your future, so that you can build different content
based on what your future returned.
So here we can set up a future.
And our future, of course, is the future return by provider of fetch and set orders.
So we can copy that line here and then go down here and configure that as the future.
Because fetch and set orders of course does return a future.
So that's the future for our future builder.
Now, with the future set up, we also have to define a builder, and that's a builder, as you generally
already know it.
It's a function which gets executed on your behalf.
It receives a context and here you also receive an extra argument.
And that's your current data currently returned by your futures.
So a data snapshot, you could say this should then return the widget you want to build and now the
widget you want to build, of course, simply depends on the state of that future.
So let's actually use the more complex or the longer function definition without that arrow so that
we can write a multi-line function body.
And here we can, first of all, have a look at the data snapshot to find out what's in there.
The data snapshot here is of type A sync snapshot.
And if you add a dot after it, you see that there you can find out if you have an error object or the
data which you retrieved and also what the current connection status and that tells you what the future
is currently doing.
You can compare this to Connection State and for example, there you can find out whether it's currently
waiting.
So whenever the future hasn't resolved yet or whether it's done and when it's done, you will have to
check whether you got data or an error.
So here we can check if data snapshot connection state is currently equal to connection state waiting,
which means we're currently loading.
So in that case, of course, I want to return this centered widget here, so I will return this here.
Else I know we're done.
And then you could check if data snapshot error is equal to null, in which case, you know, you have
no error or the other way around.
If it's not equal to null, in which case you have an error and then you want to do error handling stuff
here, which I'll not do here, but what you could do.
Alternatively else you know you have no error.
And then here I want to return that list you.
So let's get rid of that down there.
Now, we don't need as loading anymore.
So here, I'll just return the list, you builder.
And in case we should have an error, I'll just return a standard widget with a child or essay text.
An error occurred just to have something on the screen and return some widget in that case, but I focused
on a success case and here we return our list view builder with the order data which should now be available
because we're done fetching our orders.
Now, one important note about this setup, though, right now, we would enter an infinite loop here,
because when this is done fetching and setting the orders, it will notify listeners.
And since we set up a listener to orders here, our whole build method would run again.
We would build a new few future builder here and send a new request, and that would keep on going.
So the solution here is to not set up the listener up here for the order data, because we don't need
the order data up there, but simply use a consumer of the order data in here.
In that case here, because only here I'm interested in order data.
So here we can set up a consumer.
Of our orders.
Where we in the end to find a builder, where we get the context and our order data then and now here
it is where I actually want to render that list view, because that's now the place where we actually
need our orders and we want to where we want to set up a listener.
And important, of course, here you have all the other third argument, that child, that static child,
which never changes, which you could use.
Now we should have a set up which actually works and fetches our orders without entering an infinite
loop.
And just to check this, I'll also add a print statement here in the build method building orders.
So this should now not run all the time and let's now see whether that works.
So here I'll go to my orders.
We see the spinner, we see the orders, and back here we see that this was only executed once.
And this is now the more elegant alternative to using a stateful widget just to fetch orders and show
a loading spinner.
And the advantage is also that we don't just save that useless transformation to a stateful widget.
We also don't have to manage the loading state on our own because we're letting the future builder do
that by checking the connection state.
So now what we can do here, of course, is we can get rid of in it state and off.
This is loading property.
Get rid of our state class.
And convert this year back.
To a state less widget as it was before.
And now this is a very lean widget.
Of course.
And we can do a lot to refresh, to have the same application as before.
But now with a more elegant setup for our orders and obviously you could use such a future builder as
we're using it here in your other widgets to either to turn them back into stateless widgets or if you
had reasons for making them stateful widgets.
Even in such cases to not manage the is loading variable on your own, but instead let the future builder
do that.
I'll leave that here and I'll also leave the other approaches in this app so that you can see and check
both.
But using the future builder is definitely the approach I would recommend because it's so elegant and
it utilizes the tools Flutter gives you.
As a side note.
It, of course, also avoids rebuilding this entire widget tree here just because the loading state
changed.
Instead, it will really just rebuild the parts that do need rebuilding.
So that's another benefit we get here.
So we added future builder here and here.
Everything works as intended.
However, I want to highlight one potential issue you could be facing in other applications and therefore
a better way of using Future Builder.
The way we use it here works absolutely fine in this app and in this widget, but if you had something
in this widget which causes the build method to run again, some overstate your managing or anything
like that.
Then fetch and set orders would of course also be re executed.
Right?
Because if build runs again, this entire code here runs again and therefore this method would run again.
This, of course, means that a new future would be obtained here.
And that, of course, in turn means that a new future would be obtained.
And that, of course, in turn means that this HTTP request is sent again and so on, and that is something
we might want to avoid if just something else changed in this widget.
If there is no reason to fetch new orders, let's say you were presenting an overlay, a dialog to the
user and hence the build method executes again.
You definitely don't want to fetch new orders just because something else changed in this widget, which
doesn't affect the orders.
Therefore, it is considered a better practice to obtain this future differently.
Even though I will emphasize it again, this approach will not cause any problems here, since we have
no other state changing logic in this widget here.
But if you had that, a better way of getting and using that future would be to convert your orders
screen to a state full widget, which I quickly do here with refactoring.
And with that converted in your state class, you should add a property of type future for example named.
Orders future.
Then you add a new method which returns a future which you could name.
Obtain orders.
Future like this.
And in this method, you then return the result of this call to fetch and set orders, which of course,
will give you a future.
So you return this future here.
Now, as a last step, you should add in its state here.
And before you call super in its state, you set orders future.
So this property equal to the result of calling obtain orders future.
So with that, we just have a clean way of getting our future and storing it in a property when this
widget is created and then you use this order's future property in your build method as a future here
for the future builder.
By using this approach, you ensure that no new future is created just because your widget rebuilds.
Again, this is not a scenario we have here.
This widget won't rebuild unintended, but if you had the scenario that a widget could be rebuilt and
you don't want to fetch new orders just because something else changed, then using this approach is
better and ensures that no unnecessary HTTP requests are sent.
And therefore this is considered to be a good practice, which I also wanted to show you.